>> Steve Kinney: So there is one more
that we're gonna kinda take a look at,
which is this apply middleware.
Apply middleware is basically in between
that action and it hitting the reducer.
You can do other stuff.
We will see this other stuff later today.
We'll see this other stuff later today
when we need to fire an API call or
something along those lines.
Because this is all just really simple,
pure JavaScript,
where we're just mutating an object,
or not mutating an object,
replacing an object, right,
careful with my words there, right?
So if we wanna fire an API call, or
do other stuff, have side effects,
right, that doesn't happen.
Everything's gotta be pure in
that cycle that I showed you.
Applied middleware gives us
an opportunity to interject ourselves,
and to be able to have some thoughts and
opinions, right?
And so
we could write just some middleware,
that's a simple JavaScript function just
like everything else in Redux, right?
So we can say logger ,for instance, right?
And one of the things that gets passed
in is the ability to get the current
state of the store, right?
The current, we say the store is this
object that's holding everything,
it's got the ability to dispatch action,
so on and so forth.
The snapshot of what that object is
at that moment, we call state, right.
And so at any given point, we can get
the current state of the store, and
the middleware is a function that
returns another function, right?
And there's a little bit of
functional programming in here,
like functional programming warning,
where we return a new function,
it takes the argument called next.
All right, so this, we're returning
a function that returns another function.
And we'll do whatever
we need to do in here.
So console log, MIDDLEWARE,
and we could go ahead and get the state
of the store and do something to it.
Or make an AJAX request or
something along those lines.
And then you can see the action.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
we use middleware a few places.
One is we use it with libraries like
Redux and Redux Observable, right?
We also use it for analytics, right?
Instead of going throughout our code base,
and finding
all of the times they did a certain
action and doing a react application.
We listen for all of the actions
that are coming through.
It's a hey, it's an upload users,
right, action.
We will then send that the segment IO,
right, or something along those lines.
And we have one common place in our
code base that is listening for
every action firing through and
then can make those analytics calls.
Right, and all of that kind of stuff so
that we can debug and
stuff along those lines and
see usage of the application, right.
So it's a place to hook into that
entire cycle that we saw earlier and
have opinions about what we're doing.
The one thing that you need to do is you
do need to call Next at some point, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Because you can chain
multiple middleware together, right?
Just because we have a middleware
that's sending analytics to segment IO
does not mean that I don't want to
have Redux Observable, too, right.
The idea of middleware is
you chain them together.
You can do multiple things along the way.
And then have something that
comes out the other end, right,
that will eventually go to the reducer.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, so this will
create our entire flow in this case,
right.
And all that we need to do
is when we create a store,
>> Steve Kinney: Give us some space.
>> Steve Kinney: We can give it a reducer,
and
we can also,
>> Steve Kinney: Use this
applyMiddleware helper function.
>> Steve Kinney: And it will go ahead,
and we can then kinda compose
that chain for ourselves.
All right, so we can applyMiddleware,
we'll start with our logger, right.
And I can do additional ones in here and
basically,
this could be then redux thunk,
an observable, a logger and
basically those actions will flow
through each of them, right.
So we can kinda hook in there and
do additional stuff.
Generally speaking, to be really honest,
for us the analytics tool was the first
custom middleware we ever had to write.
We've used middleware, right, and
we'll see that a little bit, right?
Again, redux thunk, redux observable,
so on and so forth, redux promise.
But the fact of the matter is
the analytics, when we were, hey,
someone was like, I'm gonna have
to spend a week going through all
the code base to do all
these analytics functions.
And I was like,
what if we did this, right,
it was the very first
time we had to write it.
As long as you understand
the kind of basic flow and
the idea that a lot of this is
functions and modifying objects,
effectively, that is redux,
right, at this point.
We'll actually see it as we
build some applications and
get a little more into the leaves, but
that is the scope of it and all of it.
>> Speaker 2: Quick point on the last
line, did you mean to call create store?
Is that what that is?
>> Steve Kinney: I did.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Steve Kinney: Thank you.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay,
thank you very much.